the big AHA is to realize that if every
node simply had a pointer to whoever was
behind it we never need to scan forward
from the front to find our predecessor
so in other words if 50 had a pointer
back to the node containing 9 and the
node with 9 in it had a pointer back at
3 and this note had a pointer back at
the sentinel then if we wanted to find
any of our previous we just follow that
pointer so we ended up with this
topology here where each node has not
just an item and a next planner but also
a previous pointer and then that way
this list structure is often called a
doubly linked list each node has two
links and that's as opposed to what we
had before which was a singly linked or
only forward-pointing list and so a
singly linked list by the way is what s
lists stood for now you know so this
approach is wonderful and that once
we've added these two links our add
methods fast our get methods fast in our
remove method from either the ends is
fast so any operations involving the
ends of the list will take constant time
though operations in the middle will be
slower and we'll talk about alternative
approaches for dealing with those later
but as far as linked lists go this is
the way that linked lists are typically
done now this approach while it works it
has this one limitation which you will
only really feel and come to understand
if you try and code this thing up the
there is a special case which is that
the last pointer sometimes points at the
sentinel and it sometimes points that
what we'll call a real note and so while
that might not seem such a big deal here
once you try and code it up you'll see
that for each of your methods you'll
start running into these annoying if
statements we have to check and see if
it's actually the sentinel so we want to
avoid that so what we can do is try and
be a little more pure we're gonna look
to the heavens for inspiration and try
and think how can I make this just more
perfect so the most natural way to
perfect our approach is to add a second
Sentinel we could say instead of having
a last pointer that points the last item
we're gonna have a sentinel on both ends
because now that we have front and back
pointers are sorry next and previous we
can have a sensible it's always of the
front and one that's always at the back
so that the empty list has a pointer or
has a sentinel here at the front and a
scintilla here the back and then as we
add items to our list we end up just
sliding them in between the two
sentinels so this approach is nicer
it'll be much easier to code up than the
naive approach and it'll be equally
powerful and this is one approach you
can use for project one now
while this approach is nice and easy to
cut up I think there's one better
approach this is the approach that if he
went up to the you know the mountain
where the monk is like hanging out in
the mountaintop temple and you said what
is truly the best doubly-linked list and
you had yeah I was long climb and you
had to it was just excruciating to get
up there and you really are asking for
answers this is what you would get okay
in this approach instead of having a
sentinel in either end you're gonna have
one Sentinel that is both the front and
the back well how can that be
you might ask you're you're you know the
monk atop the hill and he might say well
whenever you have an empty list the
previous is the sentinel itself and the
next is the Sinhala itself and at that
point you're getting irritated of the
monk and you just want answers and you
have to reflect a little that's part of
the the glory of some of the most
beautiful ideas they take a lot of deep
thought to really get but in this case
as you add items to the sentence to the
frontal list you'll find that there's a
very natural place to add them so after
we add the numbers 3 and 9 for example
we would say the Sentinel its next is 3
that's the first thing we added and then
it's next is 9 and then it's next is the
Sentinel again so in effect it's kind of
like the fact you know the worlds round
if I keep going in one direction around
the world that come back to where I
start and and that's this approach and
so for example if I do Sentinel dot next
dot next dot next I'm back to where I
started so this arrow and purple is
Sentinel next next next which is just
the Sentinel and so while this idea may
seem more confusing and a little silly I
encourage you when you do project one do
this right understand the wisdom of
the monk atop the hill and I'm like NIT
enlightenment will be yours so that's it
as far as our doubly-linked lists go in
terms of topological improvements and so
just to summarize what we did there
improvement 7 was adding a dot last
pointer to the last item analyst and doc
previous says everything should look
behind it but the problem there is that
for each of our methods wound up with
special cases owing to the fact that to
this situation here where we this this
special case we described before
so to avoid those special cases in each
of our methods we can either have two
sentinels or we can make our list
circular and this is the approach I
recommend for project one because it's
cool
so to summarize all the things we've
done in the previous lecture we made an
S list improvements one through six in
this lecture we've made the D list seven
and eight and so there's many more
things before we would be up to par with
the built in linked list that's in Java
for example adding exceptions and
various other features and we'll discuss
those over the coming weeks but that's
the core of what makes a doubly-linked
list good so there's a little bit more
we're gonna say now about making our
linked lists even better